---
layout: post
title: Aliquam
description: Ipsum dolor sit amet
image: /assets/images/pic01.jpg
category: 'blog'
---
In any formal education system, an individual spends almost 10 - 12 years in school for academics. The cautious comparative evaluation of the time spent, to the actual life lessons one gets, huge dreath will be observed. As the pubic brain graps things more quickly than that of the adult one, schools should take on the responsibility to guide students for the non-academic challenges they will face after adolescence.
The world is full of diversity, that means an adult has to deal with the various barriers that come with their lifestyle. Background, Economical status, Religiion, community these are some of the subdued but effective factors that shape one's perspective of the world. In this case schools are the perfect place to teach students how to exhort oneself to overcome these barriers, and look for opportunities that will help them socially and professionally. This can be done by encouraging students to take part in various activities to interact with the local communities. The diversity in the school itself is enough to evaluate such situations and make children aware.
Active risk taking is also one of the most important aspect of the adulthood. It would be more efficient and effective strategy to make students habitual to taking calculated risks. In today's world the most fancy example is schools encouraging students to start their own businesses. One such experiment in the US has been proven to be very effective, and exalting. Some of the most important skills are social skills, working into teams, descision making, expressing one's views in persuassive way and, even, how to qualify some challenging situations for its merits and demerits. Schools have perfect resources to simulate the senarios where these skill could be practiced. 
One might argue that, it is job of a parent, to groom their child for the life and pass on their knowledge aquired through real life experience. But, the possibility of this is attenuating in recent times. The modern life that parents live were they deal with immense work pressure might not be able to invest enough time for their children. In the US where the relation between parent and child is very fragile, and so this knowledge transfer may not happen. At the other extrem end, in contries like India and Japan where the bond between parent and child is strong but the relation is foreshadowed by the archaic culture. Hence parents hesitate to talk to their children about their personal experiences. And hence the non-academic education becomes a rare possibility. Thus, schools should take up the responsibility to atleast engender the importance of such skills.